# 1.2 History of Modrinth

For over a decade, the main choice for the place to host modded content had been [**CurseForge**](https://curseforge.com). While CurseForge was satisfactory for most purposes, it was insufficient in a few ways. One main issue was the low quality of its search functionality. The founding of a new **mod loader**, Fabric, provided the motivation for an alternative platform to be established, as CurseForge did not support Fabric at the time.

The first inklings of Modrinth came in the form of Fabricate, a hobby project whose first line of code was committed on May 9th, 2020 by Geometrically, who remains Modrinth's owner today. This was shared with members of the Fabric community, who provided feedback to help Fabricate get up on its feet. It was in these first formative weeks that Modrinth became open source and took on its first few team members. Much of the base Modrinth foundation established at that time persists today, including the use of technologies like [Actix Web](https://actix.rs) and [MeiliSearch](https://meilisearch.com).

When Fabricate was first created, the site was mainly just a search interface for finding CurseForge mods. This, however, did not end up being a sustainable model. The first project, [Nice to Have](https://modrinth.com/mod/nice-to-have) by [RedstoneParadox](https://modrinth.com/user/RedstoneParadox), was created on October 19th, 2020. Somewhere in that time, Fabricate was renamed to Modrinth. Nobody quite remembers where this name came from, but the Grecian theme still in use today for naming things internally was established nonetheless.

November 30th, 2020 marked the date that Modrinth transitioned from "alpha" to "beta" status, where a rewrite of the web interface was introduced. The following months brought the introduction of many features, such as version editing, mod following, reporting, and notifications. The first major feature update did not come until February 27th, 2022, over a year later. Keep in mind that Modrinth was still a volunteer project at the time! This update brought another rewrite of the web interface alongside the project gallery, version 2 of the Modrinth API, version dependencies, and more.

May 15th, 2022 brought the introduction of modpacks to Modrinth, and August 27th brought plugins and resource packs. Before that point, only mods were supported. November 12th then brought the introduction of our **Creator Monetization Program**, allowing authors to get paid for uploading to Modrinth. With this feature, Modrinth largely reached parity with the main features of CurseForge's Minecraft section.

January 7th, 2023 introduced shader packs, data packs, a new landing page, and changes benefiting creators. Around this time was also the first announcement that Modrinth was no longer entirely a volunteer project. Having paid employees would allow Modrinth to develop features much faster and with a better, more consistent quality. That August, the largest update yet was brought to Modrinth, with the introduction of the Modrinth App, new in-house authentication options (GitHub had been the only option up to this point), personal access tokens, and two-way communication with moderators.

While a lot has happened in Modrinth's history, including a lot that was left out here, there is still more to be made. Our [roadmap](https://docs.modrinth.com/roadmap) provides more information about what exactly we are still planning to add to Modrinth.